So, I decided to shut down my business
for new clients at the end of 2025. And
I want to tell you why. Cuz I think
there's five or six good lessons in this
that you're going to find useful when it
comes to growing your own business next
year. At the end, I'll also show you
what I'm going to do instead. All right.
So, things went very well over the last
three years. I did a million dollars.
Then the next year, I did two million.
And then this year, we're going to go
over $4 million. Next year, I was going
for $8 million. And I had a plan, and I
felt pretty confident about hitting it.
But something occurred to me that I
think highlights one of the biggest
problems with this space and it's this.
So let's just break down business into a
few sections. So my business model and
probably yours was made up of some key
parts. We have content creation which is
basically just making YouTube videos.
Then we have marketing. So although
making YouTube videos is kind of
marketing, by that I mean email and
sales pages and funnels. Then we have
sales. So I had three full-time sales
guys helping me out. Then we had
delivery. So this is actually working
with the clients to help them get
results. Then you have team management.
This is looking after the team. And then
you have product improvements. This is
working on the product to make it better
and better. And what you tend to find is
nobody is energized or enjoys every
single one of them. So to give you an
example, let's just score each one with
how it impacts me as a traffic light.
And I think you should do this yourself
too. So I could make content 28 hours a
day. It fills me with energy. I also
love marketing, writing emails, and
building sales pages. I find it fun. I
also love working on my product because
it's building and improving stuff. So,
that's stuff like updating course
content and making new apps to try and
help make people's lives easier. So, all
of those things are green light. They
don't zap me of energy, they actually
give it to me. Then we have delivery.
So, I do like working with people. But
what I tend to find is some people, they
zap my energy whilst others kind of fill
me with it. So, that gets an orange
light. It's good, but I couldn't do it
24 hours a day. And then everything else
on there sucks the life out of me and
drains me. Now, when I say drains me,
that means if I just do those tasks, I
won't be able to get out of bed in the
morning. Now, my team are probably
watching this going, "Well, screw you,
Ed, but let me explain that so they
don't hate me." So, my team are amazing
because I don't manage them. They have a
ton of common sense and they're very
good at what they do. So, I don't really
have to tell them to do much. so they
don't drain me. But this is still a red
zone because when I get new people on,
most of the time they do and I have to
fire them pretty quick because they
don't have that common sense I'm looking
for. But the real red light problem here
is sales. I know what it is, but when
you are selling something, it's always
in your mind. And what I found was it
made me so much worse at making content
and coming up with ideas and working on
all of those green things. But at the
start of 2025, I implemented a weight
list system. And this solved the problem
because for 3 to 4 weeks, I could be
100% focused on content and product
development and looking after clients
because we weren't selling anything and
then I'd have one week where sales were
open and the thing would always sell out
really quick. But that week would drain
me. However, I thought it was only a
week every 3 or 4 weeks, so I can keep
doing that for years. The thing is it
then came time to think about the next
level milliondoll months and I thought
hm this model could do it but it's
probably unlikely and also onboarding
double the amount of people every month
in a week that could get a little bit
chaotic. So I thought I need to open
sales all the time and to do that I'm
going to need more traffic to hit my
sales page and discover my offer. Now, I
could do this by posting more content,
by putting more effort into the videos,
by sending more emails, but that's
probably going to burn me out. So, I
thought, all right, I'll start trying
ads. I'll buy more traffic and use
organic combined. And then next year,
along with an upsell I had planned. I
thought 8 million was going to be pretty
doable. Anyway, we fired up the ads and
then suddenly this whole new section
appeared. The ultimate life sucking
drain section ads. You see, what I like
about YouTube is that every video is
kind of like an ad, but you get a ton of
value from it. Whereas ads, they're just
advertising. There's no value. So, I
think that's why I found this type of
content sucked the life out of me like a
Dyson with a V12 engine strapped onto
it. But the worst thing was with ads,
there's now more attention needed to
sales. So, all the stuff that energized
me was just getting pushed to one side,
and I had very little time to do it.
Now, I know how businesses work. I've
been doing this long enough to know that
the truth is if you want to hit any
level above you, you have to put
yourself through an immense amount of
pain and frustration where you leave
your comfort zone of the thing that was
working to seek out new heights so that
you can earn more. I call it breaking
yourself to remake yourself. And I had
to break myself to remake myself into
someone who was actually capable of
making $8 million a year. But one
morning, I woke up and thought, why? Why
am I chasing more? Why do I care about a
million dollar month? And when I looked
at what earning more meant, it just
meant more time doing all the things I
hate. Now, the business people out
there, they're going to say, "Well,
that's easy. You just outsource all the
stuff that you don't like and you build
a bigger team." But I don't want to
build a bigger team. It can drain me. I
like the team I have. So, I asked
myself, why do you want to actually get
to 8 million a year? And I was kind of
ashamed when I realized the only reason
I want to do this was for other people.
So firstly, I think I just wanted the
status of being someone who can hit that
number because there's not that many
people on the planet who can do it. But
that is incredibly lame. That is a
decision to base your entire self-worth
off of your ego. But then also when I
looked at a lot of businesses doing big
numbers, one thing I noticed was the
bigger they got, the worse their product
and service became. Probably because
they're so focused on all the red
things, getting new people rather than
kind of looking after them, making it
better. So, I thought, well, what do I
want? And I realized firstly, I love the
idea that I make a video that gets
10,000 views and 10,000 people could
potentially take action on one thing I
say and those 10,000 people then get
more views on their videos, educating
other people. So, suddenly my one video
with 10,000 views has impacted a million
lives. And then secondly, I like finding
ways to solve problems by making stuff.
So, I just thought, well, in that case,
just do the green things 100% of the
time. you enjoy it and the knock-on
effect of you doing it is epic. So,
that's what I'm going to do. I'm going
to finish off the year. I'm gonna let a
few more people into my program. There's
very limited spaces left now. And then
when they're gone or at the end of
January, I'll look after them and every
single person who I have been working
with until our contracts end. Not they
have contracts, but then at the start of
next year, I'm just going to transition
to a new business model. But Ed, why are
you ending client support? like
energizes you. It's orange. Well, it's
because I know that most people don't
want to do sales. They don't want to do
client support, especially not on the
level I've been doing it. And they don't
want to build a big team. But in order
to charge more so you can earn more, you
get to a point where you kind of have to
do it. So, I thought, do you know what
would be cool? Solving that problem.
Just helping people grow followings that
build green blob only businesses where
the flex isn't earning a million a
month. The flex is I could earn more if
I wanted to, but I'd have to sacrifice
my freedom. Sacrificing your freedom
isn't a business, it's a prison. And I
think with the advancements in
technology, there is a new way to grow
businesses online that is either here
right now or very close on the horizon.
And I want to be one of the people to
help you discover it and implement it
too. In the same way that years ago, I
helped people stop making videos for
search and then about 18 months ago
started showing people the importance of
niching down, this is just the next step
in my evolution. So, with that in mind,
what are you working on, Ed? Well, it's
very early days and I've got a ton of
work to do before I can show you how to
do that because I have to do it for
myself first. But, I can let you in on a
few of the ideas that I'm going to work
on that will form part of the 2026
Grandmaster Plan. And the weirdest thing
is two parts of the plan are incredibly
old school. Firstly, I'm going to keep
making YouTube videos cuz I really enjoy
making them on this channel. I think
probably the most ever. I'm also gonna
work on a book and I'm publicly
announcing it to keep me accountable.
It's gonna take me the best part of a
year. I'm not trying to rush it, but I
know I've got a good book in me I think
you're gonna love. And then I came up
with another idea. So recently I was
wondering how did I learn to double my
business every year for three years.
I've not paid anyone for business
coaching for nine years. I paid a guy
called John Busher. He's been my writing
and story coach for almost four years
now. We've met up every Monday. But
other than that, I've not paid anyone
for any help. I don't even watch YouTube
videos about business. Every now and
then, maybe one or two. And I've read
maybe like 10 business books over the
last decade.
Most of which I didn't finish. So, what
caused me to learn stuff? Well, part of
that is I'm curious. So, I just try
things, see what happens, and then learn
that way. But the biggest turning point
came when I was in LA, and I spent a
week with a few other entrepreneurs like
Sam Oven and Chris Williamson and Andrew
Kirby, and we just talked and shared
stories, and I got about five years of
business lessons in three days. So I
thought if this is how I learn best, why
don't I build that into my business? So
next year I'm just going to start
running very small inerson events.
They're not going to be learning heavy
sit in a boardroom and watch me point at
a whiteboard and bore you to death. I
don't think that's where the real value
is. It'll be some sort of training, but
the second half of the day is most
likely just going to be hanging around
with other really driven business owners
so we can all learn from each other.
It's like a taxdeductible holiday where
you level up a year in 3 days. That's
the rough idea. Anyway, now I'm only
going to offer this to existing clients
first as I'm an introvert. So, this
could be a blob that goes red quick and
just sucks the life out of me, but I
thought I'd try it anyway and then
that's kind of all I can announce right
now. But access to myself after this
year will no longer be available in the
current form that I'm offering it. So,
if you do want to work closely with me
and my team, this is the last chance to
get the support I give every day to
businesses. And if you want some of the
best, simplest advice I think I've ever
given to business about YouTube, watch
this video next. It is the secret source
to building YouTube channels for
businesses. And thank you for listening
to my midlife crisis. It's the third one
I've had in five years.
See you at the next one.